\section{Discussion}
\label{discussion}

One of the main disadvantages of writing competency questions as queries for
most concepts is that implementations are slow. We consider that the benefits
outweigh the drawbacks as the outputs are ensured to be concise without further
validation. Sometimes is challenging to come up with competency questions when
there are no implementations to refer to. The CCO provides a clear documentation
that we can turn to in such cases. Other problem is that the actual software
implementation relies in calling java as a subprocess from python. The
alternative would have been to use clojure instead but we are optimistic that,
thanks to new OWL aware tools like
horned-owl\footnote{https://github.com/phillord/horned-owl} and its respective
python embedding
py-horned-owl\footnote{https://github.com/jannahastings/py-horned-owl} we will
eventually be able to migrate to a pure python solution. The only issue stopping
us from using them directly is that they have yet to support some DL reasoner.

The next milestone is to complete the terminology associated with the first two
scenarios. As well as designing two further scenarios, each associated with a
service. The first consists of a day-ahead stochastic forecasting application
for individual and groups of stations. The second is for the aggregated
estimation of bidirectional charging potentials and charging flexibility
calculated by the tool {venco.py} \cite{Miorelli.2024}.  
We intend to do practical demonstrations  by adjusting data models based on
scenario one using the FAIR version of the German network agency data that we
extracted for \cite{ArellanoRuiz.2024}.

One important open issue is hosting of the ontology. Currently, we use the
namespace of the Open Energy Platform, but we are not sure if they would
consider it part of the scope of their project. One alternative could be
upcoming repository of ontologies often mentioned in the discussion board of the
CCO. Our last alternative is to prepare some form of self-hosting. At the time
of writing this paper we propose having this discussion during the workshops of
these proceedings.
